Chico «Here's the book, it's a dollar» Groucho «Here's a ten, and shoot the change.» Chico «I don't have change I'd have to give you nine more books.»
Groucho You know I think you're the most beautiful woman in the world? Woman Really? Groucho No, but I don't mind lying if it gets me somewhere.
Was that you or the duck?
Then the world will be for the common people, and the sounds of happiness will reach the deepest springs. Ah! Come! People of every land, how can you not be roused.
The new era differs from the old chiefly in that the lash begins to imagine itself possessed of genius.
He Harpo loved life and lived it joyously and deeply and that's about as good an epitaph as anyone can have.
The oppressed are allowed once every few years to decide which particular representatives of the oppressing class are to represent and repress them.
The proletarians have nothing to loose but their chains. They have a world to win.
In studying your basic metabolism, we first listen to your heart's beat, and if your hearts beat any thing but diamonds and clubs, it's because your partner is cheating, or your wife.
I do not want to belong to any club that would accept me as a member.
All people are born alike... except Republicans and Democrats.
Paying alimony is like feeding hay to a dead horse.
The production of too many useful things results in too many useless people.
This isn't a particularly novel observation, but the world is full of people who think they can manipulate the lives of others merely by getting a law passed.
I find television very educating. Every time somebody turns on the set, I go into the other room and read a book.
What exclusively determines the magnitude of the value of any article is therefore the amount of labour socially necessary, or the labourtime socially necessary for its production.
Each morning when I open my eyes I say to myself I, not events, have the power to make me happy or unhappy today.
The history of all hitherto existing societies is the history of class struggles.
While money can't buy happiness, it certainly lets you choose your own form of misery.
With the possible exception of clothes, beauty salons and Frank Sinatra, there are few subjects all women agree upon.
To be radical is to grasp things by the root.
Man makes his own history, but he does not make it out of the whole cloth he does not make it out of conditions chosen by himself, but out of such as he finds close at hand.
But capital not only lives upon labour. Like a master, at once distinguished and barbarous, it drags with it into its grave the corpses of its slaves, whole hecatombs of workers, who perish in the crises.
The secret of life is honesty and fair dealing. If you can fake that, you've got it made.
Society does not consist of individuals, but expresses the sum of interrelations, the relations within which these individuals stand.
This law of capitalistic society would sound absurd to savages, or even civilised colonists. It calls to mind the boundless reproduction of animals individually weak and constantly hunted down.24
That's bad luck three on a midget.
Policeman «A hermit eh? Then why's your table set for four?"  Groucho «That's nothing. My alarm clock is set for eight.
Capital is dead labour, which, vampirelike, lives only by sucking living labour, and lives the more, the more labour it sucks.
The best thing for rich people to do is become Batman
If you find it hard to laugh at yourself, I would be happy to do it for you.
The tradition of all dead generations weighs like a nightmare on the brains of the living.
Just give me a comfortable couch, a dog, a good book, and a woman. Then if you can get the dog to go somewhere and read the book, I might have a little fun.
Just as man is governed, in religion, by the products of his own brain, so, in capitalist production, he is governed by the products of his own hand.
Age is not a particularly interesting subject. Anyone can get old. All you have to do is live long enough.
As usevalues, commodities differ above all in quality, while as exchangevalues they can only differ in quantity, and therefore do not contain an atom of usevalue.
I don't know. When I was born there was a nurse taking care of me.» «What's the matter? Couldn't the nurse take care of herself?» «Sure she could. I just found that out too late.
If I hold you any closer I'll be in back of you!
If you're not having fun, you're doing something wrong.
Even the intellectual crowd will have none of me. Physically, I look like one of them. Graying at the temples, I walk with a slight limp and wear thick glasses.
All that is solid melts into air, all that is holy is profaned, and man is at last compelled to face with sober senses, his real conditions of life, and his relations with his kind. 
It isn't necessary to have relatives in Kansas City in order to be unhappy.
Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people.
The philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways the point is to change it.
A child of five could understand this. Send someone to fetch a child of five.
Either this man is dead or my watch has stopped.
Getting older is no problem. You just have to live long enough.
In 1642 the modern world was born.
A man is only as old as the woman he feels.
All geniuses die young.
You must be aware that the reward for labour, and quantity of labour, are quite disparate things.
The abolition of existing property relations is not at all a distinctive feature of Communism.
Scientists make these deductions by examining a rat, or your landlord who won’t cut the rent, and what do they find? Asparagus.
Whatever it is, I'm against it.
We'll meet at the theater tonight. I'll hold your seat 'til you get there. Once you get there you're on your own.
The education of all children, from the moment that they can get along without a mother's care, shall be in state institutions.
In history as in nature, decay is the laboratory of life.
An abundance of good friends does not lead to better philosophy .
Clear? Huh! Why a fouryearold child could understand this report! Run out and find me a fouryearold child, I can't make head or tail of it.
If you've heard this story before, don't stop me, because I'd like to hear it again.
Marriage is a wonderful institution, but who wants to live in an institution?
If conquest constitutes a natural right on the part of the few, the many have only to gather sufficient strength in order to acquire the natural right of reconquering what has been taken from them
As a matter of fact, the methods of primitive accumulation are anything but idyllic.
the theory of Communists may be summed up in the single sentence Abolition of private property.
In studying your basic metabolism, we first listen to your heart's beat, and if your hearts beat anything but diamonds and clubs, it's because your partner is cheating, or your wife.
The true law of economics is chance, and we learned people arbitrarily seize on a few moments and establish them as laws.
When you're in jail, a good friend will be trying to bail you out. A best friend will be in the cell next to you saying, 'Damn, that was fun'.
The increase in value of the world of things is directly proportional to the decrease in value of the human world.
Only in community with others has each individual the means of cultivating his gifts in all directions only in the community, therefore, is personal freedom possible.
All science would be superfluous if the outward appearance and the essence of things directly coincided.
Perseus wore a magic cap down over his eyes and ears as a makebelieve that there are no monsters.
I have had a wonderful time but this wasn't it.
History is not like some individual person, which uses men to achieve its ends. History is nothing but the actions of men in pursuit of their ends.
Military intelligence is a contradiction in terms.
Die, my dear? Why that's the last thing I'll do!
Room service? Send up a larger room.»  iA Night at the Operai
Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communistic revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win.  Workingmen of all countries unite!
I intend to live forever, or die trying.
As individuals express their life, so they are.
Capitalism Teach a man to fish, but the fish he catches aren't his. They belong to the person paying him to fish, and if he's lucky, he might get paid enough to buy a few fish for himself.
Wages are a direct consequence of estranged labor, and estranged labor is the direct cause of private property.
Labor in the white skin can never free itself as long as labor in the black skin is branded.
I never go to movies where the hero's tits are bigger than the heroine's.
He may look like an idiot and talk like an idiot but don't let that fool you. He really is an idiot.
You can leave in a huff. Or you can leave in a minute and a huff.
The more of himself man attributes to God, the less he has left in himself.
Hello, I must be going.
Man does not control his own fate. The women in his life do that for him.
Every emancipation is a restoration of the human world and of human relationships to man himself.
This is not a book that should be set aside lightly  it should be flung with great force.
A commodity appears at first sight an extremely obvious, trivial thing. But its analysis brings out that it is a very strange thing, abounding in metaphysical subtleties and theological niceties.
I find television very educational. Every time someone switches it on I go into another room and read a good book.
The extremity of this bondage is that it is only as a worker that he continues to maintain himself as a physical subject, and that it is only as a physical subject that he is a worker.
From the moment I picked up your book until I put it down, I was convulsed with laughter. Some day I intend reading it.
I am free of all prejudices. I hate every one equally.
Here's to our wives and girlfriends...may they never meet!
Would you mind getting off that fly paper and giving the flies a chance?" «Ahhh, you can't trick me! Flies don't read papers!»
As, in religion, man is governed by the products of his own brain, so in capitalistic production, he is governed by the products of his own hand.10
A hospital bed is a parked taxi with the meter running.
Why don't you bore a hole in yourself and let the sap run out?
I love my cigar too, but I take it out of my mouth once in a while.
And stop pointing that beard at me, it might go off!
Society as a whole is more and more splitting up into two great hostile camps
A spectre is haunting Europe—the spectre of Communism.
The first requisite for the happiness of the people is the abolition of religion
I, not events, have the power to make me happy or unhappy today. I can choose which it shall be. Yesterday is dead, tomorrow hasn't arrived yet. I have just one day, today, and I'm going to be happy in it.
It is well known how the monks wrote silly lives of Catholic Saints over the manuscripts on which the classical works of ancient heathendom had been written.
Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, just as it is the spirit of a spiritless situation. It is the opium of the people.
No one is completely unhappy at the failure of his best friend.
The 'free' laborer, thanks to the development of capitalistic production, agrees, i.e. is compelled by social conditions, to sell the whole of his active life, his birthright for a mass of pottage.
Whatever it is, I’m against it.
I must say I find television very educational. The minute somebody turns it on, I go to the library and read a good book.
Religion is the opiate of the masses.
No revolution is made out of shame. I reply Shame is already revolution of a kind
Love flies out the door when money comes innuendo.
My plans are still in embryo, a town on the edge of wishful thinking.
Philosophers have hitherto interpreted the world in various ways the point, however, is to change it
vassals
Social progress can be measured by the social position of the female sex.
They are my slaves  books and papers  and they must serve me as I please.
Some people claim that marriage interferes with romance. There's no doubt about it. Anytime you have a romance, your wife is bound to interfere.
I don’t want to belong to any club that would have me as a member.
the forming of the five senses is a labour of the entire history of the world down to the present
Communism deprives no man of the power to appropriate the products of society all that it does is to deprive him of the power to subjugate the labour of others by means of such appropriation.
Capital, therefore, announces from its first appearance a new epoch in the process of social production.
Hello, I must be going, I cannot stay, I came to say, I must be going. I’m glad I came, but just the same, I must be going.
All mythology masters and dominates and shapes the forces of nature in and through the imagination hence it disappears as soon as man gains mastery over the forces of nature
I never forget a face, but in your case I'll be glad to make an exception.
To be radical is to go to the root of the matter. For man, however, the root is man himself.
That's three quote? Add another quote and make it a gallon.
From each according to their ability, to each according to their need.
Quote me as saying I was misquoted.
Workers of the world unite you have nothing to lose but your chains.
Learn from the mistakes of others. You can never live long enough to make them all yourself.
I was married by a judge. I should have asked for a jury.
Moments are the elements of profit
The bourgeoisie cannot exist without constantly revolutionising the instruments of production, and thereby the relations of production, and with them the whole relations of society.
In proportion therefore, as the repulsiveness of the work increases, the wage decreases.
Outside of a dog, a book is man's best friend. Inside of a dog it's too dark to read.
Do you mind if I don't smoke?
Selfcontempt is a serpent that ever gnaws at one's breath, sucking the lifeblood from one's own heart and mixing it with the poison of misanthropy and despair.
If anything is certain, it is that I myself am not a Marxist.  iIn a letter about the peculiar 'Marxism' which arose in France 1882i
Philosophers have hitherto only interpreted the world in various ways the point, however, is to change it.
Machinery which is not used is not capital.
The windmill gives you society with the feudal lord the steam mill, society with the industrial capitalist
Before I speak, I have something important to say.
One morning I shot an elephant in my pajamas. How he got in my pajamas I'll never know.
I laugh at the socalled 'practical' people and their wisdom. If one wants to live like a beast, it could naturally do, to turn its back on humanity's suffering and only care about its own pelt.
I’ll put off reading iLolitai for six more years until she turns 18.
Practically everybody in New York has half a mind to write a book and does
Why, look at me. I've worked my way up from nothing to a state of extreme poverty.
You know you haven't stopped talking since I came here? You must have been vaccinated with a phonograph needle.
Every opinion based on scientific criticism I welcome.
If you love without evoking love in return  if through the vital expression of yourself as a loving person you fail to become a loved person, then your love is impotent, it is a misfortune.
Centralization of the means of production and socialization of labor at last reach a point where they become incompatible with their capitalist integument.
I have had a perfectly wonderful evening, but this wasn't it.
Education is free. Freedoom of education shall be enjoyed under the condition fixed by law and under the supreme control of the state
The bourgeois sees in his wife a mere instrument of production.
I am a machine condemned to devour books.
Ignorance never yet helped anybody.
We have no compassion and we ask no compassion from you. When our turn comes, we shall not make excuses for the terror. from Suppression of the Neue Rheinische Zeitung
Merely quantitative differences, beyond a certain point, pass into qualitative changes.
The ideas of the ruling class are in every epoch the ruling ideas.
If a black cat crosses your path, it signifies that the animal is going somewhere.
Time wounds all heels.
Men make their own history, but they do not make it as they please.
There is no royal road to science, and only those who do not dread the fatiguing climb of its steep paths have a chance of gaining its luminous summits.
Philosophy and the study of the real world have the same relation to one another as onanism and sexual love.
Those are my principles, and if you don't like them...well I have others.
Hic Rhodus, hic salta! Here is the rose, here dance!
Marriage is a wonderful institution...but who wants to live in an institution?
Everyone must believe in something. I believe I'll have another beer
I only write first editions.
The alienation of man thus appeared as the fundamental evil of capitalist society.
I think women are sexy when they got some clothes on. And if later they take them off then you've triumphed.   Somebody once said it's what you dont see you're interested in, and this is true.
I am nothing but I must be everything.
Everyone of our relationships with nature and man must be a definite expression of our real, individual life.
Go, and never darken my towels again.
I sent the club a wire stating, PLEASE ACCEPT MY RESIGNATION. I DON'T WANT TO BELONG TO ANY CLUB THAT WILL ACCEPT ME AS A MEMBER.
Life is a whim of several billion cells to be you for a while
We left New York drunk and early on the morning of February second. After fifteen days on the water and six on the boat we finally arrived on the shores of Africa.
I've been looking for a girl like you  not you, but a girl like you.
I've had a perfectly wonderful evening, but this wasn't it.
If you take cranberries and stew them like applesauce, they taste much more like prunes than rhubarb does.
Anyone who says he can see through women is missing a lot.
I wouldn't want to belong to a club that would have me as a member
Man makes religion, religion does not make man. Religion is indeed man’s selfconsciousness and selfawareness as long as he has not found his feet in the universe.
Political power, properly so called, is merely the organised power of one class for oppressing another.
Anything that can’t be done in bed isn’t worth doing at all.
Behind every successful man is a woman, behind her is his wife.
Money is the alienated essence of man's labor and life and this alien essence dominates him as he worships it.
Religion is the impotence of the human mind to deal with occurrences it cannot understand.
Learn from the mistakes of others. You can never live long enough to make them all yourself.
Time flies like an arrow. Fruit flies like a banana.
The tradition of past generations weighs like the Alps on the brains of the living.
Bel Air, I am convinced, was laid out by some diabolic sadist who deliberately decided not to use a compass or a surveyor.
A year ago I came here without a nickle in my pocket, now, I've got a nickle in my pocket.
I read in the newspapers they are going to have 30 minutes of intellectual stuff on television every Monday from 730 to 8. to educate America. They couldn't educate America if they started at 630.
The only real laughter comes from despair.
If you take cranberries and stew them like applesauce they taste much more like prunes than rhubarb does.
Once I put it down I couldn't pick it back up.
I'm not crazy about reality, but it's still the only place to get a decent meal.
The last capitalist we hang shall be the one who sold us the rope.
All mysteries which lead theory to mysticism find their rational solution in human practice and in the comprehension of this practice.
Most young women do not welcome promiscuous advances. (Either that, or my luck's terrible.)
I don’t have a photograph, but you can have my footprints. They’re upstairs in my socks.
Money frees you from doing things you dislike. Since I dislike doing nearly everything, money is handy
That's three quotes? Add another quote and make it a gallon.
Accumulate, accumulate! This is Moses and the Prophets!
She got her looks from her father. He's a plastic surgeon.
Marriage is the chief cause of divorce.
Hail, hail Freedonia, land of the free!
Hollywood brides keep the bouquets and throw away the grooms.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, cry and you're probably watching the wrong channel.
You are horrified at our intending to do away with private property. But in your existing society, private property is already done away with for ninetenths of the population
As exchangevalues, all commodities are merely definite quantities of congealed labourtime.
Yesterday is dead, tomorrow hasn't arrived yet. I have just one day, and I'm going to be happy in it.
I must admit, I was born at an early age. 
Nobody — not even a musician of the future — can live upon future products.
Reason has always existed, but not always in a reasonable form.
There's one way to find out if a man is honest  ask him. If he says «yes» you know he is a crook.
Military justice is to justice what military music is to music.
She's so in love with me, she doesn't know anything. That's why she's in love with me.
I love to read. My education is selfinflicted
In fact, the proposition that man’s species nature is estranged from him means that one man is estranged from the other, as each of them is from man’s essential nature.
Years ago, I tried to top everybody, but I don't anymore. I realized it was killing conversation. When you're always trying for a topper you aren't really listening. It ruins communication
Politics is the art of looking for trouble, finding it everywhere, diagnosing it incorrectly and applying the wrong remedies.
Come on in girls, and leave all hope behind.
You're a great brother. You give us a heart attack worrying about your heart attack, which you didn't even have the decency to have!
Jaminan kemerdekaan bangsa ialah pada kemerdekaan jiwa.
A very interesting theory makes no sense at all.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Democracy is the road to Socialism.
Whoever named it necking was a poor judge of anatomy.
Outside of a dog, a book is man's best friend. Inside of a dog it's too dark to read.
Don't look now, but there's one man too many in this room, and I think it's you.
The ruling ideas of each age have ever been the ideas of its ruling class.
The executive of the modern State is but a committee for managing the common affairs of the whole bourgeoisie.
Next time I see you, remind me not to talk to you.
Boogey boogey boogey
The bourgeois during its rule of scarce one hundred years, has created more massive and more colossal productive forces than have all preceding generations together.
Communism is the riddle of history solved, and it knows itself to be this solution.
The philosophers have only iinterpretedi the world, in various ways. The point, however, is to ichangei it.  iThese words are also inscribed upon his gravei
The philosophers have only interpreted the world in various ways the point is to change it.
It is not the consciousness of men that determines their being, but, on the contrary, their social being that determines their consciousness.
I wish to be cremated. One tenth of my ashes shall be given to my agent, as written in our contract.
Go on, get out! Last words are for fools who haven't said enough!
Any place I hang my head is home.
Necessity is blind until it becomes conscious. Freedom is the consciousness of necessity.
I've got a good mind to go out and join a club and beat you over the head with it.
Humor is reason gone mad.
Blessed are the cracked, for they shall let in the light.
