Dare to be naïve.
You never change things by fighting the existing reality. To change something, build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete.
There is nothing in a caterpillar that tells you it's going to be a butterfly.
I live on Earth at present, and I don’t know what I am. I know that I am not a category. I am not a thing — a noun. I seem to be a verb, an evolutionary process  an integral function of the universe.
Humans beings always do the most intelligent thingafter they’ve tried every stupid alternative and none of them have worked
When I am working on a problem, I never think about beauty........ but  when I have finished, if the solution is not beautiful, I know it is  wrong.
I'm not trying to counsel any of you to do anything really special except dare to think. And to dare to go with the truth. And to dare to really love completely.
Everyone is born a genius, but the process of living degeniuses them.
If you want to teach people a new way of thinking, don't bother trying to teach them. Instead, give them a tool, the use of which will lead to new ways of thinking.
Geniuses are just people who had good mothers.
I'm not a genius. I'm just a tremendous bundle of experience.
The minute you choose to do what you really want to do, it's a different kind of life.
In order to change an existing paradigm you do not struggle to try and change the problematic model. You create a new model and make the old one obsolete.
Dare to be naive.
Humanity is acquiring all the right technology for all the wrong reasons.
I am convinced that creativity is a priori to the integrity of the universe and that life is regenerative and conformity meaningless.
Love is omniinclusive, progressively exquisite, understanding and compassionately attuned to other than self.
Sometimes I think we're alone. Sometimes I think we're not. In either case, the thought is quite staggering
If humanity does not opt for integrity we are through completely. It is absolutely touch and go. Each one of us could make the difference.
If success or failure of this planet and of human beings depended on how I am and what I do... HOW WOULD I BE? WHAT WOULD I DO?
I just invent. Then I wait until man comes around to needing what I've invented.
I am a passenger on the spaceship Earth.
It is essential that anyone reading this book know at the outset that the author is apolitical. I was convinced in 1927 that humanity's most fundamental survival problems could never be solved by politics.
Either war is obsolete or men are. 
Dear reader, traditional human power structures and their reign of darkness are about to be rendered obsolete.
Mistakes are great, the more I make the smarter I get.
I am convinced all of humanity is born with more gifts than we know. Most are born geniuses and just get degeniused rapidly.
There is no joy equal to that of being able to work for all humanity and doing what you're doing well.
God is a verb
Pollution is nothing but resources we're not harvesting. We allow them to disperse because we've been ignorant of their value.
Integrity is the essence of everything successful.
...primarily the individual is going to study at home.
Human beings were given a left foot and a right foot to make a mistake first to the left, then to the right, left again and repeat.
The universe is nonsimultaneously apprehended
The minute you begin to do what you really want to do, it's really a different kind of life.
Every time man makes a new experiment he always learns more. He cannot learn less.
We as economic society are going to have to pay our whole population to go to school and pay it to stay at school.
How often I found where I should be going only by setting out for somewhere else.
I would say, then, that you are faced with a future in which education is going to be number one amongst the great world industries.
A new, selfemployed architect scientist is the one in all the world who may accelerate realization of a highstandard survival for all, as now completely practical within the scope of available technology.
We are powerfully imprisoned by the terms in which we have been conducted to think.
It is new design by architects versus world revolution by political leadership.
The selfcommissioned architect is the obviously exclusive potential  for as at present used, or designed, the world's resources are serving only fortyfour per cent of humanity.
When I am working on a problem, I never think about beauty but when I have finished, if the solution is not beautiful, I know it is wrong
The point is that racism is the product of tribalism and ignorance and both are falling victim to communications and worldaround literacy
Get ready the greatest new educational facility at the approximate dynamic population center of the North American continent
We are called to be the architects of the future, not its victims.
Since the initial publication of the chart of the electromagnetic spectrum, humans have learned that what they can touch, smell, see, and hear is less than onemillionth of reality.
Science is the attempt to set in order the facts of experience.
I live on Earth at present, and I don't know what I am. I know that I am not a category. I am not a thing—a noun. I seem to be a verb, an evolutionary process—an integral function of the universe.
If you want to teach people a new way of thinking, don't bother trying to teach them. Instead, give them a tool, the use of which will lead to new ways of thinking.
Human beings are the only creatures on the planet that tell time and think they have to earn a living.
When I am working on a problem, I never think about beauty. I think only of how to solve the problem. But when I have finished, if the solution is not beautiful, I know it is wrong.
Every child is born a genius.
Life is the spirit incarnate in time.
The opposite of nature is impossible.

