Those who do not move, do not notice their chains.
Being human means throwing your whole life on the scales of destiny when need be, all the while rejoicing in every sunny day and every beautiful cloud.
The most revolutionary thing one can do is always to proclaim loudly what is happening.
Tomorrow the revolution will 'rise up again, clashing its weapons,' and to your horror it will proclaim with trumpets blazing I was, I am, I shall be!
What presents itself to us as bourgeois legality is nothing but the violence of the ruling class, a violence raised to an obligatory norm from the outset.
Women's freedom is the sign of social freedom.
I want to affect people like a clap of thunder, to inflame their minds with the breadth of my vision, the strength of my conviction and the power of my expression.
Freedom is always the freedom of the dissenter
Freedom is always and exclusively freedom for the one who thinks differently.
My dear, it is very nice here, every day two or three persons are stabbed by soldiers in the city there are daily arrests, but apart from these it is pretty gay..
Life is singing also in the sand crunching under the slow and heavy steps of the guards, when we know how to listen to it.
Freedom is always the freedom of the dissenter (Freheit ist immer die Freiheit der Andersdenkenden)
I know thy works, that thou are neither cold nor hot I would that thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth.
I want to burden the conscience of the affluent with all the suffering and all the hidden, bitter tears.
Clearly, not uncritical apologetics but penetrating and thoughtful criticism is alone capable of bringing out the treasures of experiences and teachings.
Bourgeois class domination is undoubtedly an historical necessity, but, so too, the rising of the working class against it.
The leadership has failed. Even so, the leadership can and must be recreated from the masses and out of the masses.
Militarism in both its forms — as war and as armed peace — is a legitimate child, a logical result of capitalism
At the present stage of development of the world market and of world economy, the conception of Europe as an isolated economic unit is a sterile concoction of the brain.
Marxism is a revolutionary worldview that must always struggle for new revelations.
Marxism must abhor nothing so much as the possibility that it becomes congealed in its current form.
Socialism in life demands a complete spiritual transformation in the masses degraded by centuries of bourgeois rule.
War unleashes – at the same time as the reactionary forces of the capitalist world – the generating forces of social revolution which ferment in its depths.
The war completely rends all the veils which the bourgeois world – this world of economic, political and social fetishism – constantly wraps us in. 
The war destroys the appearance which leads us to believe in peaceful social evolution
The modern proletarian class doesn't carry out its struggle according to a plan set out in some book or theory… in the middle of history, in the middle of progress, in the middle of the fight, we learn how we must fight
The masses are the decisive element, they are the rock on which the final victory of the revolution will be built.
"Order reigns in Berlin!" You stupid henchmen! Your "order" is built on sand. Tomorrow the revolution will already "raise itself with a rattle" and announce with fanfare, to your terror: I was, I am, I will be!
